Introduction
------------

### Mihai Criveti, CTO Cloud Native and Red Hat Solutions at IBM

- Cloud Native & Red Hat Solutions Leader

- Red Hat Certified Architect

- Builds multi-cloud environments for large customers


### Base OS Image Automation journey

- Started building OS images using automation in 2010, as Architect for IBM's first Red Hat based cloud.

- Used a horrible combination of Perl and Jenkins for image build process.

- Had to develop base OS images, as well as various middleware images.

- Later on, worked on VMware image builds and had to re-write the pipeline.

- Found the combination of Ansible, Tower and Packer to be an amazing combination to build image workflow.


Example Workflow: Build, Secure and Test Images for Multiple Environments
-------------------------------------------------------------------------


### Example automated, layered image build workflow

1. Store all image build scripts, code and artifacts in Git.
2. Code changes or security updates trigger Tower or Jenkins to start a new image build.
3. Ansible will provision and setup a bare metal build node.
4. Parallel builds generate *base* OS images (RHEL 7, 8, Windows, Fedora, etc) when needed (Packer) - for KVM, VMware, VirtualBox various cloud providers.
5. Secondary builds based on the *base* image now trigger (OpenSCAP profiles).
6. Tertiary builds now trigger to install a variety of middleware.
7. Images are packed, signed and uploaded to an image store.
8. Images are provisioned and tested.
9. Dismantle the build infrastructure.


::: notes


This is meant as an example on what, why and the process used to automate a specific scenario.

Other things to consider:
- OpenShift Virtualization images are very similar to **RHV**, **OpenStack** or **Cloud** (IBM Cloud VPC Gen 2, AWS) image formats.
- The same Ansible post-install steps (with a few  conditions) can be used to build images for VMware or any other hypervisor.
- Images can be built in *layers*, so you can create a base image, from which you can create various compliance layers, or middleware layers.
- 
:::